Docs 6711 write troubleshooting content pa (#37)
mulesoft/docs-service-mesh: modules/ROOT/pages/common-commands-troubleshoot.adoc

= Common Commands Used for Troubleshooting
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: service mesh, microservices, common commands, troubleshooting

When troubleshooting Anypoint Service Mesh, you might need to perform various common tasks, such as retrieving adapter logs, displaying the adapter status, modifying log4j configuration, and so on:

* <<retrieve-adapter-logs,Retrieve adapter logs>>
* <<access-the-adapter,Access the adapter>>
* <<retrieve-policies-and-contracts-info,Retrieve policies and contract information from the adapter>>
* <<modify-log4j-config,Modify log4j configuration>>
* <<replace-service-mesh-license,Replace Anypoint Service Mesh license>>

> 

Reviewer: I'm guessing that you wanted to provide links so that the audience could go directly to the info needed and skip the rest, which is great! Because this list is so short, you have the option of ending the intro sentence at "common tasks:"
It does not really matter; it seemed a little repetitive to me to have an intro that nearly covers the whole list. But this is a tiny matter and subjective.

Author: Ok, removed! Thanks!

[[retrieve-adapter-logs]]
== Retrieve Adapter Logs

To retrieve the adapter logs when you are troubleshooting an issue:

. Display the adapter pod:
+

> `$ kubectl get pods -n service-mesh`.

Reviewer: No period after an example presentation style:
```suggestion
`$ kubectl get pods -n service-mesh`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> An output is displayed that looks like this:

Reviewer: Do we really need to show what the output looks like, given that the user is in the UI and sees it before them? 
I think we should avoid documenting step results that are self-evident in the UI.
However, if you keep this text, you need to ADD THE EXAMPLE and alter the intro slightly:
```suggestion
The output looks like this:
```

Author: Removed! Thanks!

+

> //add text of the screenshot here

Reviewer: MISSING EXAMPLE

Author: Removed! Thanks!

. Retrieve the adapter logs:

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh logs $(kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace> -oname) -c mule`.

Reviewer: DITTO no period:
```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh logs $(kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace> -oname) -c mule`
```

Reviewer: In this text and in other syntax examples, I believe that we should be formatting placeholder variables with italic  (`_variable_`) rather than angle brackets < >.
See style reference entry for "variables".

Reviewer: If this is a big change, save it for going forward. I should have noticed this earlier!

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[access-the-adapter]]
== Access the Adapter

> When troubleshooting Anypoint Service Mesh, you might need to access and display the information about the adapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When troubleshooting Anypoint Service Mesh, you might need to access and display information about the adapter.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> //[PA: Kim is this format better or the ones that I follow in the next few topics?]

Reviewer: I can't tell what you are asking me to compare. The files show up here in a different order than in the output.

Author: NP! Done!

To display information about the adapter pods:

> . Dispalys all the pods created under the namespace service-mesh:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Display all the pods created under the namespace service-mesh:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl get pods -n service-mesh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl get pods -n service-mesh`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
An output is displayed that looks like this:
+

> //add text for the screenshot here

Reviewer: DITTO previous edits re. showing result of step...and MISSING screencap.

Author: Removed! Thanks!

. Access the adapter:
+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh exec -ti  <adapter-pod-name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh exec -ti  <adapter-pod-name>`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[retrieve-policies-and-contracts-info]]
== Retrieve Policies and Contracts Information from the Adapter

When troubleshooting issues with Anypoint Service Mesh, you might need to retrieve policies and contracts details:

. Display the adapter pod: 
+

> `$ kubectl get pods -n service-mesh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl get pods -n service-mesh`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
An output is displayed that looks like this:
+

> //add text for the screenshot here

Reviewer: DITTO

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Download the policy and contract files:
+

> `$ kubectl cp service-mesh/$(kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -ocustom-columns='NAME:.metadata.name' --no-headers -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace>):/usr/src/app/policies -c mule ~/Desktop/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl cp service-mesh/$(kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -ocustom-columns='NAME:.metadata.name' --no-headers -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace>):/usr/src/app/policies -c mule ~/Desktop/`
```

Reviewer 2: @tbruno doesn't the management command download these files?

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[modify-log4j-config]]

> == Modify Log4j configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Modify Log4j Configuration
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

When troubleshooting Anypoint Service Mesh, you might need to modify the Log4j configuration:

> . Execute the following command to display the adapter pod:

Reviewer: Parallelism:
```suggestion
. Display the adapter pod:
```

Reviewer: These tasks are so short: mostly two steps, and 4 of 5 begin with the very same command.
I'm wondering if there isn't a way to avoid repeating that same Step 1 and MISSING output display.
Maybe we can brainstorm this later.

Author: Yes, sure! Done! Thanks!

+
`$ kubectl get pods -n service-mesh`.
+
An output is displayed that looks like this:
+

> //add text for the screenshot there

Reviewer: DITTO

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Download the current log4j configuration:
+

> `$ kubectl cp -c mule service-mesh/<replace_with_grpcmule_pod_name>:/usr/src/app/conf/log4j2.xml log4j2.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl cp -c mule service-mesh/<replace_with_grpcmule_pod_name>:/usr/src/app/conf/log4j2.xml log4j2.xml`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Update the downloaded copy of log4j2.xml as required and upload it again to the pod:
+

> `$ kubectl cp -c mule log4j2.xml service-mesh/<replace_with_grpcmule_pod_name>:/usr/src/app/conf/log4j2.xmlonf/log4j2.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl cp -c mule log4j2.xml service-mesh/<replace_with_grpcmule_pod_name>:/usr/src/app/conf/log4j2.xmlonf/log4j2.xml`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> The `log4j` configuration file is configured to check for changes every 60 seconds. Therefore to view the modifications applied, you might have to wait for that amount of time at a minimum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the `log4j` configuration file checks for changes every 60 seconds, you might have to wait to confirm your modifications.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[replace-service-mesh-license]]

> == Replace the Service Mesh license

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Replace the Service Mesh License
```

Reviewer: Should this really be Update the Service Mesh License?
The first step implies that the existing license is not valid, but there might be other reasons that the license is not appropriate?

Author: Mostly not. But changed it to "Update". Done! Thanks!

When troubleshooting Anypoint Service Mesh, you might need to replace the license:

> . Replace the licence with a valid one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Replace the existing license with one that you know is valid:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl create secret generic -n service-mesh --dry-run service-mesh-incluster-broker-impl-license --from-file=license=<license_path> -oyaml | kubectl apply -n service-mesh -f -`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl create secret generic -n service-mesh --dry-run service-mesh-incluster-broker-impl-license --from-file=license=<license_path> -oyaml | kubectl apply -n service-mesh -f -`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Redeploy the adapter:
+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh patch $(kubectl -n service-mesh get deploy -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace> -oname) --type=json -p="[{\"op\": \"replace\", \"path\": \"/spec/template/metadata/annotations/kubectl.kubernetes.io~1restartedAt\",\"value\":\"$(date -u +%FT%TZ)\"}]"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh patch $(kubectl -n service-mesh get deploy -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace> -oname) --type=json -p="[{\"op\": \"replace\", \"path\": \"/spec/template/metadata/annotations/kubectl.kubernetes.io~1restartedAt\",\"value\":\"$(date -u +%FT%TZ)\"}]"`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!
